Okay! In this video, we are gonna go
ahead and set up our controller.
We're gonna follow the traditional
annotation based method of creating the
controller. So, I'm gonna come in here
now and create a New Package.
And this is where we'll put our
controllers, and I'm gonna create a
new class here.
We'll call that CategoryController.
Of course, we'll add this. First thing
we wanna do is annotate this
and assess it up as a RestController. So
just like regular Spring MVC here, a lot
of compatibility with the annotations. So,
the first thing we wanna do is bring
in the repository.
And I do like to get in the habit of
marking these final.
So, that sets up the repository to get
injected into our controller bean. Now,
let's do a GetMapping. So, just a recap,
so the reactive types, we have Flux and
Mono. So, Mono is zero or one elements, and
a Flux is zero or many elements. So, we're
gonna, first thing, we'll set up is the
listing function. So when we do a GET
against the URL, we will set it up so
that we turn back a list of Category so
we'll wanna turn back a Flux of
categories.
So let's set that up. And then, just like
in Spring MVC, we're gonna do a
@GetMapping.
So, that'll list out the categories.
And also, let's set up a Mono.
So you can see that, that's pretty pretty
simple, and here, again, we're gonna do
the @GetMapping.
We wanna do the same value.
Just like in Spring MVC, we're into a
/ and that sets it
up to pool. So, this is setting up a api/v1/categories
as the URL. Then, we're
doing a @PathVariable of id and that
will get automatically injected into our
method here. So, we set up two methods.
And you can see that we are using the
exact same syntax that we did with
Spring MVC, but in this case, we're now
returning back the reactive types. So, the
Framework is gonna handle that for us. Here
is unused import here. Now, let's go ahead
and start this up.
Okay, gonna jump over and and see if we
can run a curl command. I had to paste it
to my clipboard, so I am doing a curl -X GET
--header 'Accept: application/json'
'http://localhost:8080/api/vi/categories. So, I
should get something. And we can see that
it did respond back. Now, if I do that
again and let's cut and paste the id,
we can see that it did in fact
returned back, So, you can see the curl. So I
did a GET without the id than I did a GET
by id. You can see that it returns back a
single fruit. Or if I do the whole thing,
you can see that it returns back a list. So, our
controller is up and working and
functioning. In the next video, I'm gonna show you how we set up a test to test
this controller.